Today I'm going to show you exactly how
much of a cheat I am when I use an arch
in a powerlifting bench press. But to
demonstrate that, I'm going to show you
how I bench press my top set with flat
back, less arch, mid-grip. The technique
that I would use if I was to be a
bodybuilder or to build pec muscles.
That's what I'm starting the session
with. And this is week four in my
program. And the goal is to get 160 kg
for eight reps, which I don't know if
I'll get. That's pretty heavy for me.
That's the last week of my program. So,
I'm anticipating what I try and do the
last week of my program is push to the
point where it's like an RP10. So, if I
fail a rep on week four, it's kind of
like I forgive myself. I off I I
obviously don't want to fail and I'll
try not to fail. But, if I get eight
reps on 160, that'll put me in a really
great position. But then I'm going to
give myself a 10-minute rest and then
I'm going to change the technique to the
cheetah arch powerlifting style that I
would use in competition. just to see
the difference in strength. So, that's
going to be interesting for me. So, if I
can get eight reps on 160 with the
midgrip and the flat feet, I should be
able to do more if I was cheating. Don't
you think? We're going to find out right
now.
So that's the bodybuilder style. Well,
that's what I consider to be the
bodybuilder style or how I would bench
press as a bodybuilder, which is
mid-grip, no arch, no levers. So the
arch does a few amazing things that
allows me to shorten range of motion.
Combine that with the wide grip, it's an
even shorter range of motion.
So what I'm doing is I'm bringing my
grip in a little bit. So it's a longer
range of motion and I'm not arching. So
it's a longer range of motion which the
goal of building muscle is to take the
muscle through a longer range of motion
and take it close to fail. That's one of
the key things that's important for
building muscle. Whereas with strength,
I shouldn't say with strength because
this is a strength building exercise. Um
the powerlifting style bench press with
the arch isn't necessarily a better way
of getting stronger. I'd say this is a
better way of getting stronger with the
bodybuilding style. It's just a better
way to shift a heavier load. Does that
make sense? So, it's a better lever.
Um, so I'm going to go up in 20 kg
jumps. So, that's 60 80 up to 160
kg. You know what I'm going to do after
that? I'll give myself a practice run
with a lighter weight just to feel the
arch and then I'll do an AM wrap on 160.
Two plates next. Two plates next. And
I'll do less and less reps. So I don't
know how many. I just did three. I'll go
100 for two and then 120 for one, 140
for one. And then we'll go for just one
all out set. That's another strategy
that I do with my programming is I set
it so week four is my heaviest week,
right? So, it's a number that I think I
can't get. So, whenever I'm writing a
program, I think it like this, right?
Week one, what's the number that I can
get? I'll save that for week three. And
then on week four, I'll do just a little
bit more than that. So, week one, which
you guys saw if you go back, I did 145
kg for three sets of eight. And it was
pretty comfortable. And I said on that
day, I'd probably be able to do 155,
maybe not 160. But the idea of it is to
do a few sessions of it and get stronger
so that you can hit it on week four. But
the trade-off is this because it's a
number that I don't think I can get
straight away, but I need a few weeks
practice and then I can get it. The
trade-off is I just do one top set. So
that's my proactive approach to D lo,
which is where we like one of the
biggest contributors to fatigue, which
is why we need a D lo to recover. The
biggest contributor is volume. So not
intensity, right? So my first strategy
when it comes to de loing is to maintain
intensity. So I still keep going up up
up 145 50 55 and then that's today's
160. But I have the volume. And when I
say half, how do you have three sets? Of
course, I'm going conservative and I'm
just going to go one set. So that's a
great D load strategy that I didn't make
up. a lot of the best researchers and
coaches. So, this is something I learned
from Charles Polyquin
actually. Maintain intensity but reduce
volume. So, if in doubt, you know,
people debate whether you should de load
or not. I say uh if you're unsure, it's
not going to hurt you if you're
proactive with your de lo. You do need
to load before you de lo. So, a lot of
beginners, I kind of say if you're an
absolute beginner in the first 6 months
to even a year of your training, you're
probably not lifting heavy enough to
deserve a D lo. But if you've already
trained for a year and you're training
pretty hard, I would say follow that
approach every week four of your
program, maintain intensity and have the
volume and then just keep on and then
start the new program and repeat that
process. That's a good strategy.
I'll tell you something. I bet you
someone noticed. I'm using a false grip
for this.
Look who's Look who's here. Hey guys.
It's Skinny Dy. Just Just in time for an
unwrapped day. She used to have a belly
and now she's How's that? 4 weeks. She's
got a four four weeks past postpartum
and she's back to skinny dinny. We're
ready. Yeah, we're ready. You can you
can unwrap for me. Why not?
All right, my unra is back. What are we
doing? We'll see. Uh, we're doing not so
heavy, which is good. 160
kg. So, that'll be good to get an amra
for that. I'm doing a I'm showing how
much I of a cheat I am. Yeah. So, 160 kg
bodybuilding style. And then we're going
to show the comparison immediately after
with 160 kilograms with a cheater arch
just to see how much of a cheat
powerliffters actually are. I was just
about to talk about my grip position
before Denny walked in and I had to give
you the grand intro. Uh but what we're
doing is a false grip. So the false grip
is typically something I don't do for my
powerlifting setup. I wrap my thumb
around it. Uh but whenever I do a mid
grip, it's just comfortable for me. Uh
and some of you might also find it
comfortable. But the strength behind the
false grip is it allows you to place the
barbell on both like stacked in line
with both of the bones of your forearm.
So, uh, you got your radius and your
ulna. They're the two bones. And when
you position like if you were to use a
martial arts palm strike, you'd want to
hit with that part of the hand cuz
that's the strongest part and it's going
to do the most damage to the person and
cause you the least damage. Same here.
If you hold the barbell too high up on
your wrist, it's going to put strain on
your wrist joint. So anyhow, for a false
grip, you're putting it on two bones.
When you're wrapping your thumb around,
you can't. So this is why the
powerlifters use a grip called a bulldog
grip, which is where we internally
rotate the hands. So the barbell is
placed on only one of the bones, which
is the ulna, and we wrap the thumb
around it. So um that's the reason why
I'm doing a false script today. All
right, 120. One
rep. Denny, do you want to practice
unrackcking? So, I don't need uh help
for an unrackck here, but but something
I got to tell you is if I have someone
new, she's not new, like she's been
unrackcking for me for years, but she
hasn't done it in a while. If I have
someone that's unfamiliar with the way
that I set up, I'm going to get them to
practice on a lighter weight. So, that's
a tip for everyone at home that wants to
get a spotting partner. A lot of the
times, if I go for a top set, I won't
just say I'll warm up everything by
myself and then on the top set, I'll
call in for a spotter. Get the spotter
to come in and practice. All right. All
right. For this one, I won't slide back
or anything. This is
[Music]
me. Good one. Thank you.
Lovely. The high five is for her, not
for me. She gets a high five for doing a
good
unrackck. I don't get a high five for
bench pressing 120.
So 140 next
the tech after a while. Um so I realized
your techers. Yeah, mine that's what
we're talking about. Not mine. Her your
technique was really lovely. Yeah, it
was just like a really precise hand out.
The delivery lovely. I'm so pleased. And
your tech? Um, now let's talk about my
technique. Um, good. The rack height's
too low. That's my normal bench press
rack height, which I was confused with
and I realized a little bit too much
work on the unrackck. Totally fine.
Totally fine. But if you're going to do
a mid-grip, use a higher rack. If you're
going to do the wide grip competition,
use a lower rack height. That's the
rules. That's the
rules.
[Music]
Easy. Let's go.
Yeah. Nice.
Let's go, bro. Oh
Yeah,
thank you. Thank you.
Oh, yeah. I know. That's uh just showing
off. You know how it is. Um but let me
just tell you that was ticking off the
plan. I don't think I would have got
that on week one of the program. Um but
you have three good practice weeks at a
conservative load. So people want the
most out of themselves when they train,
which makes sense. So that's why week
one of a new program, they train as hard
as they can. Whereas my strategy is
leave a couple of reps in reserve, feel
the demands of the entire day, and leave
room to be able to go heavier the next
week and the next week, and then you
save week four for the heavy stuff. So,
I'm very happy with that. There's one
set. Yes, it's one and done. Now, what
I'm going to do, I'll probably do, you
know, I'll strip this weight, maybe do
120 kilograms, feel the arch, just re
warm up that position, and then I'm
going to go for an AM wrap on 160 with a
powerlifting style, and try and beat
eight reps to see if I'm a cheat or not.
Let's do it. All right, 160 kg. Um,
moment of truth. Is this cheat worth
cheating for? Let's see. Now, just so
that you know, um the most I've done for
160 kg in since I've been 40 years old,
so that's the last 3 years, is 10 reps.
So although I'm going to do maybe as
many reps as possible, I'll be going for
11. Um and if I get 12, that'll be nicer
because 11 is not really a number, is
it? Now, right. Nope. All right, let's
go.
[Music]
Let's go.
Let's get it. Yep. Yep. Get it, bro. Ah,
silly.
Silly Billy. Good job. 11 reps, also
known as zero reps.
Now, honestly, there you go. So, there's
an extra three reps, um, is how much I'm
cheating. So, it's worth cheating for,
don't you reckon? Anyhow,
um, this is week four of my session, and
I shouldn't really be doing these
things. The idea of it is D lo and
that's not really much of a D lo. I've
just done two pretty much RP9 SL. That
was an RP 10 set for sure. The one
before was maybe a 9ish. Um so now my
accessory exercises might just be a
little bit of arms that are non-
fatiguing but still make me look good
for the weekend because it's Friday. Uh
anyway, I'm happy with that. Hope you
enjoyed that. Now you know whether it's
worth cheating or not. The answer is
absolutely. See you guys next time.